What are the key hyperparameters to consider?
Selecting transcript lines in this section will navigate to timestamp in the video
- [Instructor] So far we've learned about what logistic regression is and when we should use it. Now, we're going to move from the conceptual and start thinking more about the practical, to prepare to actually fit a model in the next lesson. So we're going to start by importing logistic regression, and we'll take a look at that model object and then we'll explore some of the key hyperparameters. So to import logistic regression, just need to say from sklearn.linear_model import LogisticRegression. And then all we want to do is we want to print out that LogisticRegression object and so we'll go ahead and run this. So this is all the potential hyperparameters that we could tune. There's a lot here but compared to other algorithms, this is actually a somewhat limited list. Now I want to know that you never try to tune all of the hyperparameters. You usually just choose to tune the hyperparameters that will have the largest impact, which I'm going to be calling out in the lessons throughout the rest of these chapters. For many hyperparameters, the default setting will do just fine. So you can see all the default values in the printouts here. So for this chapter, we're only going to focus on one hyperparameter. We're going to focus on this C hyperparameter. So you can see here that has a default value of one. We'll explore that in just a minute. But one other thing that I want to illustrate is some of the methods included with the LogisticRegression object. So by calling dir and then LogisticRegression, we can see all of the attributes and methods contained within that object. And I want to quickly call your attention to fit and predict. Every sklearn algorithm will have this dot fit and dot predict method. All you have to do is pass in your training features and your training labels to a dot fit in order to fit your model. Then once you have that stored model, all you have to do is pass in your test or validation set features into predict to generate some new predictions. Okay, let's dive into exploring what the C hyperparameter actually is. So the C hyperparameter is a regularization parameter that controls how closely the model fits to the training data. So if you're not familiar with regularization, it's quite common in machine learning. And it's a technique used to reduce overfitting. Overfitting occurs when a model fits too closely to the training data. So regularization combats this overfitting by discouraging overly complex models in some way. There's more details on this in the applied machine learning foundations course. Now calling C a regularization parameter is actually slightly misleading as it's actually one over Lambda where Lambda is actually the regularization parameter. So what that means is when Lambda goes to zero, then that means C will go towards infinity or will increase and what that indicates is low regularization which is going to lead to more complex models and more likely to overfit. So again, C is called a regularization parameter but it's a little bit counterintuitive because as regularization decreases C actually increases. Now looking at the flip side, high values of Lambda will generate low values of C which means high regularization, low complexity and more likely to under fit. If these overfit and under fit terms are unfamiliar to you, they just have to do with how closely the model will fit to the training data. Lastly, let's see what this actually means for some data. Each of these plots, show a logistic regression models ability to classify flowers based on the pedal length and the pedal width. So ideally what we would want to see is down here in the bottom right. This model is properly drawing a boundary between each of these three groups. So the green points kind of have their own segment. The blue points have their own segments and lastly the red points have their own portion of the plot. Now it's achieving that with a high value of C of 100, which means low Lambda and low regularization. Now, as we kind of cycle through these plots and we make C smaller and smaller, in other words that means we're increasing the regularization, this given models having a harder and harder time correctly classifying these flower types. If you look all the way to the top left, that's the smallest C parameter that we have, which is going to mean the highest regularization that we have. The models having a very hard time splitting these into three groups. Essentially all it does is it splits the plot in half, and it really doesn't understand how to split these points into different segments. So again, very low C value means high regularization and means more likely to under fit. Now recall the default setting is at one but we can see based on this plot that the model actually does a better job grouping these when C is equal to a hundred. So that is why hyperparameter tuning is necessary here. So we'll dive into testing logistic