Factor analysis and principal component analysis

The great challenge of data analysis is finding a meaningful signal hidden amid the noise or the random variation that is not important to your question. One interesting way of dealing with this is actually to get rid of some data, or specifically, to reduce the number of dimensions that you have to deal with by combining the individual pieces of data from the different variables. The idea here is that if you've got, for instance, 10 variables that are measuring approximately the same thing, then you don't really need all 10, and besides, each one of them has its own idiosyncratic error variance, but if you are able to find how the variables go together, then maybe you can combine those 10 and get a single larger score, a factor or a component, that's more useful, more informative for what you're trying to do than the individual variables with their own error variance. This is the goal of factor analysis and principal components analysis. And these are actually pretty easy to do in SPSS. To see how they work, let's come up here to Analyze, and come down to Dimension Reduction. Dimension means variables or fields. And we're going to use this first one, Factor. Now what I'm going to do is I'm going to pick a collection of variables that may have something in common. Those are the Google correlate variables about search terms on a state by state basis. We have 12 of them going from Instagram to Modern Dance. And of course it'd be nice if we didn't have to deal with 12 variables every time, but maybe they fall into a smaller number of groups or they have common components or factors behind them. Now I'm going to start with just a default analysis. I select those 12 variables and I hit OK. And what we get first is a table with Commonalities. When each variable is standardized, it has one unit of variance, and that's the initial value right here. The Extraction has to do with how much they have in common with each other and that feeds into the rest of the analysis. Then we have Total Variance Explained. If each of the 12 variables has one unit of variance, there's 12 units of variance total. But if the variables run parallel to each other, then you can find a single factor that accounts for more than one unit of variance. And that's exactly what we have here. We have a component that accounts for 4.195 units of variance, those are eigenvalues. And then we have one that accounts for two, then one, seven, and one four, and so on. When we look at those four listed again over here, these four factors account for over 3/4 of the variance in the original 12 variables. So we're able to go from 12 to four, that's a benefit for us, 'cause it's fewer things we have to deal with and they're probably going to be more stable, more reliable, and more generalizable than the individual variables would be. Now in terms of what goes into these, we look at the Component Matrix. We have the four components listed across the top, we've got the 12 variables down the side, and we have these numbers that are like correlation coefficients. They go from negative one to positive one. And high absolute values indicate strong relationships between that variable and that component, so we have a negative .759 here. That means that Facebook and component one are strongly connected. And other ones are less so, so for instance we have a negative 0.80 between GDPR and component four, so there don't really have much to do with each other. Now this table's a little hard to read. Fortunately, there are options within the factor command that make both the output easier to read and really make the underlying factors easier to deal with. So let's go back up and look at those. Let's come to Factor Analysis and let's go to Descriptives. Now I don't necessarily need the initial solution because they are going to be doing some transformations on it. I hit Continue. Extraction, we have several different choices. Principal Components, which is a theoretically distinct way of looking at the relationships between variables from factor analysis. They approach the relationship between these meta-factors and the individual variables in opposite directions, but functionally, they have a lot in common, and in fact, we're going to be doing factor analysis with principal components as our method. I don't need to see the unrotated factor solution, but I'd like to get a scree plot. The idea here under Extract is how many components or factors should it get, and this one rule here based on eigenvalues says that your larger component should explain at least one unit of variance. It's a rudimentary one, maybe not the best, but it's good enough for getting an idea of what's in your information. I'm going to change the 25 iterations to 100. And then I'm going to go to Rotation and the idea here is that sometimes when you're plotting your variables, the axes don't line up in the most informative way. It's sort of like if you have people's height and their weight, you could rotate it and just have a single thing that says how big they are, and that makes it a little easier to deal with. One important choice when dealing with rotation methods is whether you want to have what's called an orthogonal rotation, where the factors are all independent and unrelated to each other, or an oblique rotation, where they can be correlated. Now I tend to prefer oblique, because I think the interpretation's a little easier, so I'm going to use this one, Direct Oblimin. I'm going to look at the rotated solution, I'm going to get the loading plot, I'm going to change the maximum iterations to 100 here also. And then scores, we can save the factor scores as variables, but I don't do that because I find that that really capitalizes on the quirks of the particular data set. Instead, I use the output as a recommendation on creating scores, which I use other methods for that. However, it is a good idea to look at the factor score coefficient matrix, we'll select that. And then last one under options, in terms of getting our last table easy to read. Number one, let's sort things by size. So the biggest absolute values go at the top, the smallest ones go at the bottom, and then let's suppress the small coefficient, so let's make it so we don't even see the small numbers. Maybe .3 frequently works. And when I hit this, we're going to get the analysis over again. It starts by showing us a scree plot, which is an indication of how many components we probably need. The idea here is eigenvalues, which again has to do with how many units of variance in the original variables are you counting, and this first one has four, which is great, second one has two, and these other ones are both over one, so these are factors or components that are accounting for more variance than the individual variables. And the other ones are all below that, so we'll go with a solution with four. And then because I used an oblique method, we have both a Pattern Matrix and a Structure Matrix. And I generally interpret the Structure Matrix and you see what it does here is it lists our four components across the top, one, two, three, four, and the variables down the side, but it's sorting them by their absolute coefficients. So we see that Museum and component one have a very strong association, as is Volunteering and GDPR. Facebook and Scrapbook both have strong associations, but they're negative. Then again, you see that this negative 610, over here, Facebook has a slightly stronger association with this next one. And then you'll see how it scrolls down, tumbles down, until we have this last factor is composed primarily of these two: University and Privacy. The components are correlated with each other. These are correlation coefficients. They're not strong. But they're something to keep in mind when you're interpreting the results. And then finally, we have a Component Plot in Rotated Space, unfortunately because this is a three-dimensional plot on a two-dimensional screen, it's a little hard to read, but it gives us an idea of how the variables might be associated with one another. And then we have some additional output that goes into these other plots, but what this is used as, the way I use factor analysis and principal components analysis, is as a heuristic, is as a rule-of-thumb to say, these are the variables that probably go together, and then you want to find what do these have in common that explains why they would load this way? And then you can create a scale score that's based on those and adjust it to make it more interpretable and useful and that's what we're going to talk about in another video